INFO 5100 Project 2 - Interactive Data Visualization

Project Topic: Movie Recommendations!
Group Members: Ming Cheng, Nupur Kale, Suganya Sankaran

The Story about Our Visualization:
“What movie to watch?” is such an important question that will directly affect the quality of your relaxing Saturday night and if you are one of those “who-cannot-make-up-your-mind” people, picking a movie can be a nightmare. And most importantly, movie preferences are personal. It’s more than what year it is published or which genre it belongs too. People care about more factors than the usual google results. We want to know how the movies are rated considering both box office success and the popularity of the lead actors.
So, unlike traditional movie rating, this data visualization is aimed to display data in a more dynamic way, which allows the users to choose the top 2 factors about a movie that matters most to them in addition to traditional filters. For example, if someone would like to see a movie that receives higher box office success and higher actor likes rather than just finding a movie with highest score rating, he can find just the right recommendations and customized ordering of the movies based on our visualization. 
Now, get your popcorn ready, and see what our data visualization can surprise you with movie rankings that you’ve never thought about.

Data Description and Mapping:
We used two data source movie_metadata.csv and award.csv from kaggle.com. For both data sets, we extracted data only for movies that are published after 2000, in English, and have complete information for the variables we selected in order to keep the number of movies manageable for the purpose of this project. From movie_metadata.csv, we extracted variables of duration, genres, year, language, number of likes for lead actor on Facebook, budget spent on the movie, gross earning, movie score on imdb, number of likes for the movie on Facebook, title, plot keywords, and imdb link to the movie. This data is combined with their Oscar nominations information from the award.csv file to give users more information on the movie. 
While combining the data, there are many issues we needed to watch out. For example, the data in award.csv is not labelled as desired. The actor name and filmName values are sometimes switched, or the year of the movie is incorrect. So while combining the two data sets together, we made sure to check for the inconsistency in the data files.  

On the left side of the website, the users are able to choose filters and factors for the data visualization. The data is filtered by the filters of user’s choice and mapped onto the scatter plot with 1st factor as x-axis and 2nd factor as y-axis in linear scale. On the right side, instead of a standard scatterplot look of the data, we tried to mimic the star sky of the background. On the black background, the circles in yellow representing each movie and the shaded orange region indicates those that have both high x-value and y-value, which are the most recommended movies. The user can hover over each circle for more details on the movie, such as title, award nominations, year, duration, keywords of the plot, and a clickable imdb link if they decide to watch it.  

To improve usability, we had incorporated some features for the interaction. If none of the filter or the factor are chosen, defaults to the filters are “all”, and default factors are movie budget and gross. This prevents the program from crashing. Also, it gives a ‘no movie found’ message so that users can change filter selection if no movie satisfies the selected filters. And we added a toggle button for the users to choose movies: either only show movies with Oscar award nominations or all movies regardless of awards.
